h1. Cherokee plugin for Server Density

h2. Overview

This plugin will monitor the Cherokee web server.

h2. Manual Installation

* Configure your agent so that it knows about plugins http://www.serverdensity.com/docs/agent/plugins/ 
* Install the plugin in your sd-agent plugins directory
* Move Cherokee.py into that directory 
* Restart the agent (service sd-agent restart)
* Head to https://youraccount.serverdensity.com/plugins/ and Add new plugin
* Add a plugin called Cherokee
* Edit the Cherokee plugin and create groups for the graphs (see the configuration section below)

h2. Manual Configuration

h3. Cherokee web server

To enable server information and connection details:

* Launch the web administration interface
* Go to the "vServers" section
* Open the "default" vserver
* Click on the "/about" directory handler
* Click on the "Handler" tab
* Change the "Show Information" drop-down to select "Server Information + Connections"
* Click on the "Security" tab
* Next to "Allow From" enter "127.0.0.1"
* Click "SAVE" in the top-right corner
* Click "Graceful restart"

Now, to test the server information and connection details are available you can run the command:

<pre>
curl -XGET 'http://localhost/about/info/py?type=connection_details'
</pre>

h3. Server Density agent (optional)

The Cherokee plugin will default to checking @http://localhost/about/info/py?type=connection_details@ for stats.  For most people, that will probably be sufficient.  However, if you're running Cherokee on a different server or using a different path you'll want the plugin to use a different URL to get stats.

You can add a configuration variable to @config.cfg@ to do this... eg:

<pre>
cherokee_status_url: http://over.there.com/status/py?type=connection_details
</pre>

h3. Defining Server Density Groups

In Server Density, create the following groups in your Cherokee web server
plugin:

<pre>
  Title: Traffic
  tx
  rx
  accepts
  timeouts
</pre>

<pre>
  Title: Uptime
  seconds
</pre>

<pre>
  Title: Config
  threads
</pre>

<pre>
  Title: Connections
  number
  active
  reusable
</pre>

<pre>
  Title: Modules
  loggers
  handlers
  encoders
  validators
  generic
  balancers
  rules
  cryptors
  vrules
  collectors
</pre>
